In this lesson, we will update the interface design and do a little refactoring.
I added new images to the Images folder. A little later we will see how they look directly in our widgets.
Launcher, rifle - everything looks prettier.
We will also be using other fonts. I added them to the font folder. Fonts are also added by dragging and dropping
from windows explorer. All fonts are free, so it is legal to use them, there are no restrictions.
Let's do a little refactoring for the PlayerHUD. We have visibility for each interface element
supplied separately. Let's fix it. Let's group all the elements so that this visibility is set
only once. Therefore, we remove the bind from the health progress bar, from the crosshair image, from the block with the weapon
and also from the game data.
Let's add a canvas element.
Let's add all the UI elements to this Canvas.
Set the SizeToContent parameter for the Canvas to true. Stretch it in width and height. We set the Offset to 0.
Add the bind of our IsPlayerAlive function to the property visibility.
If we need a new custom element, then we add it to the canvas and that's
all we need to do. Next, open the GameData widget.
Let's display the number of murders elsewhere. Press Ctrl + X, and delete spacer.
We will display them above the health bar. We put the ProgressBar in the VerticalBox.
Insert the number of kills into the given VerticalBox. We also set its SizeToContent to true.
A little later, we will transfer the GetKillsNum function to the PlayerHUD.
Plus let's add two colors for the progress bar, just like we did with the AICharacter lives.
Move to the GameOver widget. Let's make the title of our table a separate widget. Let me explain why.
Just copy the PlayerStatRow widget and name it StatRowTitle.
We make it reparent to a regular UserWidget. The headline will essentially just be decorative.
Replace the usual PlayerStatRow in the GameOver widget with a title.
After that, go to WidgetStatRow. We have separated the title so that instead of
the team number it will display a picture with the team color, so it will look nicer.
Let's add image.
Let's just add to the horizontal box for now. I have added an image called Ellipse. It's just a white circle.
We will add the image in a clever way. We will be able to choose whether we want to show the image, or the team number.
Let's frame the text block with a special UI element called WidgetSwitcher.
WidgetSwitcher stores multiple children and only shows one of them.
Add a picture to WidgetSwitcher. Set the alignment to the center and to the right.
The main parameter for this control is called ActiveWidgetIndex.
That is, if there is one, then the picture is shown, if there is 0, the text is shown.
It will be necessary to add functionality to the widget code that sets the color for our circle.
Let's add the necessary code in accordance with the changes we have made in the interface and start PlayerHUDWidget.
We need a forward declaration for the UProgressBar. Let's create a property for the HealthProgressBar.
From the HealthBarWidget that we are using for the AICharacter, we can copy the properties
that are responsible for defining the color of the HealthBar.
We insert these properties into the PlayerHUDWidget.
In the private section, create a cosmetic function called UpdateHealthBar.
And also in this widget we need the GetKillsNum function.
Let's move it from GameDataWidget to our PlayerHUDWidget.
Also, remove the body of the GetKillsNum function from the .cpp file GameDataWidget.
Go to the .cpp file of the PlayerHUDWidget class. Let's include the header file ProgressBar.
Let's start with the GetKillsNum function.
We also need a header file for PlayerState.
So, first we get the controller. You can copy the code.
If the pointer to the controller is nullptr, then we return 0.
If the controller is nonzero, then we create a local variable PlayerState.
Let's use the ternary operator: if PlayerState is nonzero, then we call the PlayerState-> GetKillsNum () function
And if the pointer is nullptr, then we return 0.
Let's move on. We create the body of the UpdateHealthBar function. If the HealthProgressBar pointer is nonzero,
then we can update its color depending on the current percentage of life.
Let me remind you that we have the GetHealthPercent function.
We will call the UpdateHealthBar function in two places.
The first place is directly when our health changes,
in the OnHealthChanged function, and the second place is the OnNewPawn function.
That's all for the PlayerHUDWidget class. Let's go to PlayerStatRowWidget.
Create a property for the circle image.
We call it TeamImage.
And in the public section, add the function for setting the command color.
We create the body of the function.
If the TeamImage pointer is null, then we exit the function.
If everything is OK, then call the SetColorAndOpacity function and pass the Color parameter there.
The last thing we need to do is transfer the color of the team. In the GameOverWidget
class, we call our SetTeamColor function.
We transfer to it the color that is in the PlayerState. To do this, call the GetTeamColor function.
We've added all the changes we need. We can compile the project.
In PlayerStatRowWidget we need to change the name of the
picture that contains our circle. We call it TeamImage. Compile.
Let me remind you once again that ActiveWidgetIndex must be set to one.
Next, in PlayerHUDWidget, we need to set bind for our text.
Let's copy the auxiliary nodes from the GameData widget, which form the final line to be displayed.
We call the GetKillsNum function.
And also in GameData we completely remove the GetKills function.
We have prepared everything. Let's set the number of seconds for a round to 3.
Another thing that needs to be tweaked is the team colors. We now have an alpha channel for each
of the colors at 0. With this value, our picture will simply not be displayed.
In the material of the character, the alpha channel is not used, so we had no problems with the color of the character. We start the game.
We are waiting for the end of the round. And in the statistics table, circles with the corresponding colors were displayed.
One more thing: in the progress bar, we redefined the colors of the pictures. Let's undo these changes.
Set the default Tint to white. To test it, set the GoodColor value to a shade of green.
We launch. The progress bar is green. Lives become <30 percent. The color turns red. Everything works now.
I will update the interface now. I won't record a video, because it's essentially aligning elements
and updating font sizes. We will just go over the main points.
I have updated the design of all widgets. Let's quickly go over the changes.
The fonts have been updated in the GameData widget at the top. The number of kills has also changed the font.
I have added a shadow to almost all of the texts. This can be done in the details panel. The corresponding property.
If you enter shadow in the search, you can find the shadow offset property and the shadow color property.
For the health progress bar, I added a background image. I did the same
in the block with weapons. Plus created text boxes separately for patrons and magazines.
Next, go to the GamePause widget. I focused on the title. I also added a black shadow.
I updated the buttons, set them pictures for different states: normal, hovered and press.
The title style of the GameOver widget is the same as the title of the GamePause widget.
I aligned the elements in the statistics field in the center and due to the fact that the
title line is a separate widget, I made the font in it bold.
In the menu, the widget made all the alignment from the left edge. Also changed the title to the name of our project.
Added additional text and made the quit button with the picture - the button itself is transparent over the text and picture.
Let's get it started. Our menu level is not completely ready. Now let's set up the scene. While we are looking at how everything looks.
We start the game. The interface is as close as possible to the production version.
Click on pause. Let's see how everything has been updated. And at the end we see the updated GameOver widget.
Let's improve one point a little later. Our cartridges look a little strange. We can make it so that they do not jump and add the
required number of zeros in front of the numbers. Let's customize the menu level. Let's remove the fog from the scene.
Our background will be completely black and we will display our interface against the background of the niagara special effect.
We have an emitter called smoke.
Let's create a separate Niagara system based on this emitter.
Let's adjust the smoke parameters a bit and put it on the stage. We call the carbon system MenuSmoke.
Drag it to the menu folder.
We open the asset. So we have smoke.
The first thing we'll do is decrease the SpawnRate a bit. Let's put 10 points.
Next, let us increase the particle lifetime. Let's put it from 10 to 20. There will be a movie smoke effect.
Let's add some speed. To do this, add the AddVelocityFromPoint module and set the speed, for example, 12.
The last module we will configure is ScaleColor. This module is responsible for the color of the particle throughout its life.
At the initial moment of time, set all the components of the vector to one. This means
that the particles will be white, and at the final time (time = 1) we will set the color to red.
That is, we set the X component to 1, and Y and Z to 0.
Thus, at the end of their life, the particles will have a red tint. You can still play with the parameters.
You can customize them to your liking. Let's add PlayerStart to the scene
so that we know exactly at what point the DefaultPawn was spawned. Set Location to 0.
Add the Niagara system to the stage.
I prepared the coordinate in which the system should be in advance, so I'll just enter it now.
The smoke will come from below, so the coordinate is just below the PlayerStart. We start the game. The smoke went up.
This is how the main menu will look like. Good enough. Let's go into the code again
and update two things, the first is the alignment with the bullets, and the second is the hover over the tiles in the main menu.
Let's start with the main menu. We declare two additional functions in the LevelItemWidget header file.
One of them will be called OnLevelItemHovered. It will be called
when you hover over the button, and the second one will be called OnLevelItemUnhovered.
It will be called when we move the mouse cursor away from the button. We create a body for each of the functions.
In the initialization function, add these functions to the delegates.
The button's hover delegate is named OnHovered.
The delegate that is called when we move the mouse away is called OnUnhovered.
Let's change the design logic a little, when we hover the mouse over the button, we will show our picture
with a red frame, so we remove the code from the SetSelected function. We insert it into each of the functions.
On hover, set Visibility to Visible.
And when we go away, we set Visibility to Hidden.
In the SetSelected function, we will do the following:
if LevelItem is selected, then we will shade the level picture in red.
To do this, call the SetColorAndOpacity function and, depending on the IsSelected flag,
set either red or white. We've sorted out the main menu. Go to the PlayerHUD widget.
Let's create an additional function in it that will format the number of cartridges.
The function will return type FString. Let's call it FormatBullets.
And she will have one parameter - this is the number of cartridges.
We add the const specifier, because the function will not change any data inside the class.
We need two local constants. We will not put them into parameters. This feature is too cosmetic for that.
The first constant will be named MaxLen. This parameter will be
responsible for the maximum number of zeros that we can add before the cartridges.
The next constant is a prefix character. It is of type TCHAR. That is, the type of one character. Let's assign it the value '0'.
Next, convert the number of bullets from int32 to FString. For this we use the static
function FString :: FromInt. Create another local variable that will
store the number of zeros that we need to add before the number of cartridges.
This variable will be calculated as the difference between the
MaxLen variable and the number of BulletStr characters.
If the value of this variable is greater than 0,
then we need to add zeros. We use the BulletStr variable. The FString class has a special
function that can create a string from identical characters. It is called ChrN.
The function takes two parameters: the number of characters and the character itself.
Now let's add the code and look at the internals of this function.
We pass the SymbolsNumToAdd parameter and our prefix symbol to it. That is, we have generated a
line of zeros and we add the BulletStr line to it using the Append function.
And at the very end of the function, we return this variable. Let's go to the ChrN function.
The code is pretty straightforward. A temporary line is created and, depending on the NumCharacters parameter
, the number of times the Char character is added to the line. All is ready. We compile the project.
Let's use the function of formatting cartridges. We call FormatBullets.
And we pass the GetBulletsText function to the output.
We launch the project.
Let's see how the main menu works. On hover, we change the frame, and when clicked, when the tile is selected, the color changes.
Bullet text no longer jumps. Aligning zeros are added here. This concludes this lesson.